# [VIRTUAL NETWORK]
# AZURE 10

## Key terminology
Subnet - A subnet is a logical seperation of the bigger network. It can be imagined as smaller networks (subnets) formed inside a very large network. Subnetting makes networks more efficient as the request has to travle shorter distances.

NAT Gateway - NAT allows the devices, which are on private ip to connect to an external network outside your network.

Public IP - The internet service provider assigns an ip to your router, which is used to connect to the internet.

## Exercise

### Exercise 1
* Create a Virtual Network with the following requirements:
    * Region: Western Europe
    * Name: Lab-VNet
    * IP range: 10.0.0.0/16
* Requirements for Subnet 1:
    * Name: Subnet-1
    * IPRange: 10.0.0.0/24
    * This subnet must not have a route to the Internet
* Requirements for Subnet 2:
    * Name: Subnet-2
    * IPRange: 10.0.1.0/24

### Steps For creating a virtual network with above mentioned requirements- 
1. Since we need route to internet for Subnet-2, we start with creating a Public IP. It has to be static.
AZ10-PublicIP
2. Create a NAT Gateway and assign the Public ip created in Step 1
AZ10-NATGateway.png
AZ10-Chk-PublicIP-NATGateway.png
AZ10-Virtual-Network.png
AZ10-VNetworkSubnetInfo.png

3. Create a virtual network, Lab-Vnet, with 2 subnets, Subnet-1 has no internet and Subnet-2 is assigned NAT Gateway. Assign the ips mentioned in the exercise to Subnet1 and Subnet2 respectively.
AZ10-VirtualNw-Subnet1NoNAT
AZ10-VirtualNw-Subnet2ManiNAT

### Exercise 2

* Create a VM with the following requirements:
    * An apache server must be installed with the following custom data:
```
#!/bin/bash
sudo su
apt update
apt install apache2 -y
ufw allow 'Apache'
systemctl enable apache2
systemctl restart apache2
```
* No SSH access is required, but HTTP
    * Subnet: Subnet-2
    * Public IP: Enabled
* Check if your website is reachable

### Steps for creating virtual machine:
1. Create a new VM with the above mentioned requirements

AZ10-CreateVM-HTTP.png
AZ10-CreateVM-Subnet2.png
AZ10-CreateVM-CustomData.png


## Overcome challenges

No Challenges


## Results

None